# Driver-Mode Detection
This notebook explores the concept of driver-mode detection (DMD) for evolving user-based-insurance (UBI) paradigms, such as pay-how-you-drive (PHYD).

UBI has a wide variety of potential benefits for both insurance providers and policy holders. Every insurance market is fundamentally concerned with the characterization of a (typically) high-dimensionality risk space. Modern UBI provides an oportunity to tighten the predictive distributions that characterize customer bases and yield more efficient, predictable and granular valuation of the underlying risk. UBI systems typically involve the analysis of a datastream that may include kinematics of the vehicle; trip properties, such as location, origin, destination, time of day, observance of speed limits; and indications of specific practices, such as distracted driving. Some UBI systems rely on an on-board-diagnostics (OBD) interface for some or all of this datastream, which may involve additional materials and maintenance costs for the insurance provider.

There is a concerted effort in the industry to augment or obviate this OBD component through the use of various meta data and the intertial-measurement-unit (IMU) sensors and GPS receivers that are available in nearly every modern smartphone. A typical IMU consists of three principal components: an accelerometer, a gyroscope and a magnetometer; each of these sensors reports 3-axis data in the local reference frame of the phone. The quality of the accelerometer and gyroscope is insufficient for high-precision inertial navigation/analysis; however, with standard sensor-fusion techniques and modern developments in machine learning, important insights may be derived from the datastream.

In order for these data to be useful in PHYD, we need to determine whether a policy holder, on whose phone the client-side PHYD software is running, is the driver of a vehicle or is a passenger sitting a mere half-meter away. We need to develop a rich feature space in which instances of this "driver-mode" may be effectively classified and delineated from instances of "passenger-mode". To that end, this preliminary notebook proposes, and begins to implement, various analyses that may find utility in driver-mode detection.
